Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to create a word guessing game.
So the objective of the game is to guess the word that.
And we're going to have some words that we need to create.
So first thing that we need to do is have an array.
So let's set up an array and add some words into there.
This can be any words to do javascript's And we're also going to make it that we're going to update
it to check for where I transfer in the wall to lowercase when we do the check to see if the if the
value is correct.
So the case actually isn't going to matter on these words
and you can have any number of values here within the within the array.
And let's reuse some of what we had before.
So this one is going to go back to gas and our would change it to our gas.
So this is the function that we're going to use in order to check to determine if the player's guess
is correct.
So let's put that one up.
So function our guess.
So this will check to us to see if I'm correct.
So another function that we need to set up is that we need a way to actually represent a word.
So we want to represent a word within message that is scrambled and this word is coming from the array.
So let's set up a function for that.
So this is going to be the one that's going to so we'll call it s word.
And basically this will scramble the word and show the word for the users in order for them to guess.
So this one we need to initiate.
So let's set it up that when the windows on load.
So window on load.
And we're going to fire off as word.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and grab a random word from the array and bring that
into the S-word function.
So we need to have random item from the array.
So that's the objective.
And then next once we have that random word we need to output that word within the message.
So that is the first objective and then second output the word.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and add that in.
So let me show you the solution.
Coming up so we saw earlier that we can grab a random item from the array using the math.
So let's do that now and we're going to do.
We're going to create a variable called W.
So basically this will hold our random word and we know that if we do my array then this is where we
need to have that index value.
So let's figure out that index value and I'm going to do this all within one statement.
So we use math floor and we also use math random.
So we've done this several times before and we know that if we multiply it by a value we get a random
number from 0 to whatever number is that we're multiplying it by and the number that we need to multiply
it by is the length of the array.
So I put that in and we refresh it.
We need to actually also output it into message.
So let's do that.
So this is inner so enraged him.
And just to equal that to W..
So let's go back out and refresh it.
So now we've got the word refreshed again.
So now we can see that we're getting some of these words at random.
So that's what we want to do we want to get those words at random.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to transform W into lowercase.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and let's transform W into lowercase because we want
all of the characters to be the same.
And we've got some uppercase some lowercase.
So let's do w and the method was to lower case.
Or you could do it to uppercase as well.
So this is it just in order to present that content to us.
So to lower case and basically.
Now when I refresh it we're always going to have a lower case where it doesn't matter that case that's
available within the array.
So when I have to have some type of consistency there.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to actually scramble the words so we can do this using
some of the builtin methods that are available within Javascript.
So let's create first we'll create a loop variable x equals zero and we're going to loop while X is
less than the length of the the word.
So w length.
So this is going to work the same way as we saw earlier with arrays.
So when we loop through all of the letters that are in the word then we're just simply looping through
them.
So now this is going to give us the ability to swap out a few of the letters.
So let's next select a letter by index that you want to update and we're going to do a variable here.
So I'm going to use I.
So this is going to represent the index that we want to grab.
So this is actually going to be very similar to what we just did over here where we're getting the length
of the array because they're going to work within a similar type fashion.
So what we need to do is we need to just pick a random item getting the index number from our word.
So we've got instead of array the length is like w.
So basically this is picking a random letter from our word.
So the next thing that we want to do is add a placeholder here so let's set up a variable and this will
be the scrambled word.
So initially we're going to have it blank and we want to build out the word.
So we're going to increment it and and we're going to build out this string.
So we're starting out with nothing and we need to add in whatever character we had at that.
So we've got the word.
And we need to grab back the character that we had an index.
So basically what this is doing is this is building out the variable s every time were irritating through
the loop we're adding in a new character.
And now all that's left is to simply remove out that one selected index value from our initial word.
So let's do that.
And we needed to provide word a brand new value and this time we're going to use substring and what
substring is going to do is as we saw earlier that gives us the ability to start at zero and go all
the way up to the index value that we want to select and then add it together with W and substring again
and this time we're starting at the index value and we're just doing plus one.
So what this is effectively doing is this is removing that letter from the word and basically allowing
us to add it in here and then remove it from our initial word.
So at the end of the day once we loop through this we can have our scrambled word and we can output
that.
Here we notice that something's wrong.
So something's not working right.
So again we need to do some troubleshooting and figure out what's wrong with our Javascript.
So let's go back into our code here and take a closer look.
Plus the video.
And to take a look at this function and figure out what's wrong with it and I'll show you the solution
coming up so if you had an opportunity to take a closer look and if you notice the problem is actually
going to be this part of the loop.
So what's actually happening is that we're taking.
And we're rebuilding the length of w as we're shrinking it down.
So when it comes in the initial work length of w is going to be whatever the length of the word is.
But over here we're taking out that this letter from it and we're rebuilding W..
So every time we loop through our W is shrinking and that's why we're not looping through enough times.
So the solution is to create a variable.
So this one would actually be the length of W and we need to grab that and hold that so that we're not
actually changing how many times were looping through.
So now let's go back and try it again and this time we can see that we're actually scrambling the words
and the letters properly.
So there was one final part to building out this challenge.
And that was to actually do that the guess.
So what I want you to do now again is to pause the video and build out this to check to see if whatever
input is being entered in here and when the user hits I guess to check to see if their solution is correct.
So go ahead.
Pause the video.
Make the necessary updates to the script and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So I hope you had an opportunity to try this yourself.
And one of the things that we need to do is we need to pick up whatever value was picked out of here
at random.
So we know that with W we're picking up a random value and this is going to be local.
So this goes back to the local and global scope.
So this we need to set up
globally where we need to be able to register the random word so we can do it within this type of format
because W here is dynamically changing so we can't set up w global because then we would have to make
some more additional updates to our code.
So let's go ahead and accept random word to whatever w equals.
So that basically allows us to capture within the value the variable random word whatever this word
is.
And we actually know what the word is unscrambled.
So let's go back let's save this go back to the page refresh it and let's try this again.
So this time we can see that when where refreshing it.
And now if I type in a random word in the console we can actually see what the solution is.
So now it's up to you to add in that condition to check to see if we've actually selected the right
word.
And this is just a matter of picking up that value of the guess.
So this is contained within the string object.
So let's set that up.
And two yes and equal that to document get element by ID so that the users guess is going to be contained
within the value.
And let's do a condition and we're going to check to see if the users guess is equal to the random word
so checking to see if it's correct and if it is then we can update the message to say correct.
So let's update message and in h t m l l it could be in our text as well.
And we're just going to put correct
and next we need to have an else condition so else.
And if they didn't guess that then we're just going to say wrong wrong it was and then.
Now let's add in that random word.
So that was the actual solution that we were looking for.
So less the user provided that they're going to get a message that it was wrong but we're going to see
what word it is.
So let's try this guessing game out.
So we've got a word there and let's do a world.
So we see that that was correct.
And initially what we should do as well is we should launch as world again.
So I know that's going to overwrite our message that with output with a new word so we can actually
maybe output that message in another screen so that we can tell the user what's happening.
So there's a few options there and it doesn't actually matter what happens but we need to launch another
game there.
So do S-word.
So maybe for this one we can do message one and we'll set up another output here.
And just simply equal that to message 1 and set up another element where we can pass a message to the
user.
So this time we're going to have message one.
So this one isn't actually going to overwrite whatever the results were of the game.
So let's try that again.
So wrong.
It was a low and we already get represented our next word.
So we can try again and wrong again.
It was javascript and we should also maybe add in that guess this word or something like that.
So guess this word and concatenate it together.
So let's try that one more time.
So I guess this word and let's try Hello.
So we see that wrong.
It was Halo.
And this is one last fix that we need to do is we need to transform them both to lower case so it doesn't
matter if what the guest says and it doesn't matter what the random word is that we're going to transfer
them both to lowercase.
So now we see that let's let's do one more.
So we see that we can get it wrong and I'm going to go now and try world.
But I'm going to do an uppercase.
So going back into our array we know that world is lowercase.
So even if I guess world as upper case we're still going to get it correct.
So no longer is a case sensitive.
It doesn't actually matter if we're uppercase or lowercase.
So this is just the default in case that because we don't want the users actually guessing.
The case of the letters we just want them unscrambling the word.
So in this type of format it doesn't actually matter how we're outputting it.
So go ahead and try it for yourself.
Update the array add in even more words and you can even add in some styling.
You can also have a scoring mechanism.
So go ahead out in a scoring mechanism as well.
So you can do that by setting a variable SCORE and then every time they get it right then you can increment
the score as well.